If you're just starting out on your journey to become a Master's student at a German university, the path ahead may seem complex - but rest assured, it's easier than you think.

With just three key requirements, international students can qualify for a Master's degree in Germany!

Once you have met these three criteria, you have taken the biggest and first step towards starting a Master's programme in Germany: You will know whether you are generally qualified for a Master's degree (or not). Once you have done that, you can take the second step and find out what the admission requirements are for the programme of your choice (e.g. a certain GPA, certain credit points or work experience).

Check out our Video Course (64 min.) on "How to write a Letter of Motivation"

22 videos plus checklist and template

The three (and only) eligibility criteria for a Master in Germany
To demonstrate that you fulfill the eligibility criteria for a Master’s program in Germany, you will have to collect three pieces of paperwork:

1

A First Academic Degree (undergraduate)

German universities accept Bachelor’s degrees or equivalents from all other countries. Learn more about how to get your degree recognized in Germany here.

2

An English or German Language Certificate

You can study in Germany in English or in German.  Learn about how to prove your language skills to a German university here.

3

A Visa or Residence Permit (if applicable)

Did you know that only about ⅔ of the international students coming to Germany from the top 20 countries of origin actually need a visa?  Entering Germany as a student is easier than you think. Get tips on getting a student visa here.

banner
logo
In 19 hours free webinar
Study Maritime Management and Logistics
An Important Difference: Eligibility Criteria vs. Admission Requirements
“But wait…” you may think now “why then do the programs I look at have way longer lists of requirements?” The answer to this question is easy: The German higher education system differentiates between the three general eligibility criteria and additional admission requirements.

The eligibility criteria for a Master's degree in Germany are set by German law and every prospective student must meet them, regardless of the programme they choose. In German, these are known as "Zugangsvoraussetzungen". If you meet these criteria, you are generally qualified to study for a Master's degree in Germany.
 

In addition to the general eligibility criteria, each university sets its own entry requirements to select students for its programmes. These requirements are set independently by each university and may vary from programme to programme. They are known as "Zulassungsvoraussetzungen".

It's important to understand that once you meet the eligibility criteria, your next step is to find a programme with entry requirements that match your qualifications. Some programmes may have stricter criteria, but there will always be opportunities that match your profile and strengths - making it easier for you to secure a place.
 

infographic showing the difference between the elegibility criteria and admission requirements
Infographic: Eligibility Criteria vs. Admission Requirements

Infographic: Eligibility Criteria vs. Admission Requirements *GPA: The Master’s programs with a GPA (grade point average) criteria require on average a minimum grade of 2.5 in the German system. Click here to convert your grade into the German system. Even if you do not have the grade stated on the university website, it might make sense to apply nevertheless. This is because German universities reserve a minimum percentage of their study capacities for non-EU international students.

No Admission Tests or Interviews needed (Thumb Rule)
You may be surprised to learn that German universities usually select applicants on the basis of their written application alone. This means that in most cases there are no entrance exams or personal interviews required for admission.

This is great news for international students! You can apply entirely from abroad, simply by submitting your documents - without having to travel to Germany for an entrance exam or interview.

There are exceptions, of course. Some universities may require entrance exams or personal interviews, but these cases are relatively rare.

image
Some highly demanded universities

For example, applicants to certain Master’s programs at the Technical University of Munich (TUM) may be required to participate in a personal interview. However, in many cases, these interviews can also be conducted remotely, such as over the phone or via video call.

image
Arts and Sports

For programs in arts, theatre, music, or sports, applicants are usually required to attend an in-person assessment. This may involve submitting a portfolio, performing an acting or music piece, or completing a sports test in front of a selection committee.

icon
Summary Box

The eligibility criteria for international students to study a Master’s degree in Germany are:

First Academic Degree (Bachelor’s/undergraduate degree or     equivalent)
English or German language certificate
if applicable: Visa & Residence Permit (including financial proof and health insurance)
Additional admission requirements can be defined by each university (e.g. practical work experience, minimum GPA, letter of motivation…).

More Articles
Scholarships for international students 2026/27
Scholarships for international students 2026/27

Public Universities in Germany
Public Universities in Germany

Colleges in Germany: A guide
Colleges in Germany: A guide

Language Requirements to Study in Germany
Language Requirements to Study in Germany

English Language Requirements to Study in Germany
English Language Requirements to Study in Germany

My German University
My German University
MyGermanUniversity is Germany's largest study program database - with over 24,000 Bachelor's, Master's, and international degree courses at German universities. Ⓘ

Find the right study program with detailed information on application deadlines, admission requirements, and tuition fees. In our free live webinars, you can learn everything about scholarships, visas, uni-assist, and Hochschulstart - and get to know German universities directly.

Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Imprint - Legal notice
Company
About Us
Marketing services for German Universities
Copyright © MyGU GmbH. 2019-2026