
Skip to main content
TUM
Technical
University
of Munich
News and Events
Studies
Lifelong learning
Research
Innovation
Community
About TUM
Target group entry
de
en
SettingsOpen search
Master of Science (M.Sc.)

AI in Society
AI is finding its way into more and more areas of everyday life. This brings about numerous challenges, e.g., regarding participation, transparency, regulation, or the labor market. Students of the AI in Society program deal with societal problems in the context of AI and develop holistic solutions.

Course Homepage

Key Data
Type of Study
Full Time
Standard Duration of Studies
4 (fulltime)
Credits
120
Main Locations
Munich
Application Period
Winter semester: 01.01. – 31.05.

Admission Category
Aptitude Assessment for Master
Start of Degree Program
Winter Semester (October)
Costs
Student Fees: 97.00 €
Tuition fees for international students
Required Language Proficiency
English
Information on Degree Program

Program profile
The development of artificial intelligence is progressing rapidly and AI technologies are finding their way into an increasing number of areas of everyday life. This is accompanied by numerous challenges, whether in terms of participation, transparency, regulation, or the labor market. Students of the Master's degree program AI in Society (M.Sc.) deal with social problems in the context of AI from an interdisciplinary perspective and develop holistic approaches to solve them.

The degree program is equally research- and application-oriented. It provides a deep understanding of AI technologies and their use, from medical diagnostics to autonomous vehicles. Students work with neural networks, machine learning and deep learning, generative AI or natural language processing. The focus is on questions relating to the traceability and interpretability of algorithms and the avoidance of biases, ensuring data protection and security, the importance of fair access to AI technologies, and their beneficial application in business and society.

Graduates of the degree program are not only familiar with the technical dimensions of AI applications, but also with their legal, ethical, and political implications. They are able to recognize, analyze and regulate the potentials and problems of innovative AI technologies in order to ensure their responsible use. This makes them excellently qualified for a wide range of tasks in the tech industry as well as for positions of responsibility in public administration or scientific research.

The comprehensive description of the study program can be found in the following study program documentation:

Degree program documentation for the Master’s program in AI in Society (PDF)

Program structure
The Master program “AI in Society” covers a wide range of topics from the technical aspects of AI and data science to the societal implications, regulation, and governance  of AI. The curriculum includes foundational courses in AI and data science, programming and data processing, as well as specialized courses on topics such as deep learning, human-AI interaction, and natural language processing. It also includes courses that focus on the societal aspects of AI, such as governance, law and regulation of AI, AI in diverse societies, and elective modules in different societal application areas of AI. In this way the program prepares students for roles bridging technical AI and societal implications.


Language of instruction
Required language skills for admission:

You need sufficient English language skills if you wish to apply for this program. Evidence of your language proficiency has to be submitted before the end of the application deadline. Learn more about recognized certificates and other ways to prove your English language skills.

This evidence of your language proficiency confirms that you comply with the minimum language requirements for admission to the program. Depending on the program and your individual background, it may be necessary for you to keep working on your language skills during your studies. Be sure to take a look at the services of our Language Center.  

Language of instruction:

The language of instruction for this program is English.


Information on study organization
Information on exams
Information on studying abroad 

Fees for the program
The tuition fees for international students from third countries for this degree program are 4,000 euros per semester. This amount is charged for full-time study.

Many international students can have their fees waived or receive scholarships to finance them. You can find all information on waivers and scholarships here.

Please note: The semester fee as a contribution to the student union must be paid additionally. It varies depending on where you are studying. You can find all information on the semester fee here.

Academic Regulations: Application, Studying and Exams
General Academic and Examination Regulations
Academic and Examination Regulations (German) (PDF 793 KB)
All regulations and legal framework concerning studies
Application and Admission

Application process
Minimum requirements to apply for a Master’s program at TUM are a recognized undergraduate degree (e.g. a Bachelor’s) and the successful completion of the aptitude assessment procedure. The aptitude assessment allows the TUM school to which you are applying to evaluate your individual talents and motivation for study.

During the application period, you must apply through the TUMonline application portal and upload your application documents.

Here you will find detailed information on the requirements for the documents you need to upload for application and admission to TUM.

Generally, applicants with a qualification for postgraduate studies (e.g. a Bachelor’s) obtained outside of Germany must have their documents reviewed in advance through uni-assist (Preliminary Documentation).

In detail:

Applying for a master’s program: Application, admission requirements and more 

Documents required for the online application
Degree Certificate and Diploma or Subject and Grade Transcript of Studies to Date
Transcript of Records
Proof of English Language Proficiency
Complete and Current Résumé (in English)
Letter of Motivation (optional)
List of Best Credits
Passport
Preliminary Documentation (VPD) if the qualification for graduate studies (e.g. a Bachelor’s) was obtained outside Germany)
We may require additional documents depending on your educational background and your country of origin. Complete the online application to receive a comprehensive list of the required documents. 


Documents required for enrollment
Application for Enrollment (signed)
Transcript of Records (authentic document)
Most Current Photo (as for ID)
Digital notification of your health insurance status from a German public health insurance provider (requested by applicant)
Degree Certificate and Diploma (authentic document)
We may require additional documents depending on your educational background and your country of origin. Complete the online application to receive a comprehensive list of the required documents. 


Additional admission requirements
You can find a detailed explanation of admission requirements here.


Application deadlines
Application period for winter semester: 01.01. – 31.05.

Information about applying for a higher subject semester

During the application period, you must apply through the TUMonline application portal and upload your application documents. Please be aware that we can only process your application if you upload all required documents within the application period.

We will review your application as soon as it is complete. Please check your TUMonline account regularly, to see if we have any queries to your documents or if you have to amend one or more documents.

After receiving admission, you will see in TUMonline which documents you have to submit for enrollment, and in which form.

We recommend that you submit the documents for enrollment as soon as possible after receiving admission. If individual documents are not available by then, you can submit them up to 5 weeks after the start of the lecture period. You will, however, only be enrolled once we have received all documents.

You can check the status of your application at any time in your TUMonline account.


Admission process
Selection takes place through an aptitude assessment procedure. An aptitude assessment is a two-part procedure after the submission of an official application to a program. In this procedure, the TUM school determines whether you meet the specific requirements for its Master’s degree program.

In the initial stages, the grades you obtained during your Bachelor’s program, as well as your written documents, will be evaluated using a point system. Depending on the amount of points accumulated, applicants are either immediately admitted, rejected or invited to an admissions interview. 

Aptitude Assessment for Master
Description of the aptitude assessment (appendix 2, German) (PDF 179 KB)
back to results
TUM School of Social Sciences and Technology 
General Student Advising & Student Information
Questions about application and admission

 studium@tum.de
 +49 89 289 22245
 Arcisstr. 21, Room 0144

Contact hours

General Student Advising

Appointments by arrangement in advance

Departmental Student Advising
Enkeleda Thaqi

 ais@sot.tum.de
 Marsstr. 20–22, Raum 241, 80335 München

 

Online application
Barrier-free education

Technical University of Munich
Arcisstraße 21
80333 München

Phone: +49 89 289 01
Fax: +49 89 289 22000

Let's shape the future together.
Support us 
Latest news
ERC Advanced Grants awarded to Prof. Suyu and Prof. Saur
Using mini-organs to better understand aging
Awards presented at TUM Diversity Day 2026
Schools:
Computation, Information and Technology 
Engineering and Design 
Natural Sciences 
Life Sciences 
Medicine and Health 
Management 
Social Sciences and Technology 
ners of Excellence
Airbus · Altana · Audi · Bayerischer Bauindustrieverband · BMW · Bosch · Busch Vacuum · Clariant · Dräxlmaier · Evonik Industries · Google · Herrenknecht · HUAWEI · Infineon · Linde · MAN · Nestlé · Rohde & Schwarz · RWE · SAP · SGL Carbon · Siemens · TRUMPF · TÜV-Süd · Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft · Volkswagen · Wacker Chemie