Skip to content
Germany Visa
Information ● Requirements ● Application Form
Search
➜ Check Opportunity Card Eligibility
en
de
Germany Visa
Do I need a Visa?
Visa Requirements
Application Process
Visa Types
Insurance Types
Immigration
Citizenship
Germany Visa » Banking in Germany » Blocked Account for Visa Application & Residence Permits
Germany Blocked Account for Visa Applicants: Requirements, Process, and Providers
In this article

A German Blocked Account (Sperrkonto) is a bank account for international students and job-seeker visa applicants in Germany, used to show financial stability. To set it up, applicants must deposit €11,904, from which they can only withdraw €992 monthly after arrival to cover living expenses.

Start Your Blocked Account Application Online Now and Secure Your German Visa.

Who Needs to Open a Blocked Bank Account?
You need a blocked account for Germany if you are from a country other than a European Union or Schengen Member State and you are applying for one of the following German visas:

Student visa
Job-seeker visa
Training or apprenticeship visa
Aupair visa
Visa for the recognition of foreign qualifications
Visa for language acquisition
Germany Opportunity Card – Chancenkarte
Who is Exempt?
What is The Required Amount for a Blocked Account
The required amount for a German blocked account when applying for a student visa in 2025 is €11,904. This ensures sufficient funds for living expenses in Germany, with a monthly withdrawal limit set at €992.

Higher Deposit for Certain Visas
How Is This Amount Calculated?
The Required Amount Over the Years
Can I Deposit More Than The Required Minimum?
Where Can I Open a Blocked Account?
You can open a blocked account with one of the providers listed below:

Expatrio
Fintiba
Studely
Although you can open a bank account directly with a bank, not all the branches of a German bank will offer blocked accounts, which may complicate matters. Some German banks which offer blocked accounts include:

Deutsche Kreditbank (DKB)
Targobank
Postbank
Sparkasse
HypoVereinsbank
Volksbank
Commerzbank
Kotak Mahindra is an Indian-based bank that a few Indian students often use to transfer funds for a blocked account. However, the German embassy/consulate may not accept it because it is not registered in Germany. In the best-case scenario, you get the student visa, but when you travel to Germany, you still have to transfer the money from Kotak Mahindra to a German bank before getting the residence permit. To avoid the extra steps and prolonged wait times, it is best if you open an account directly with an approved provider or with a German bank.

Is it possible to open a blocked account with Deutsche Bank?
Since July 2022, Deutsche Bank, a prominent financial institution in Germany, has ceased offering blocked accounts for international students and visa applicants. Consequently, individuals needing a frozen account for a German visa must explore alternative options beyond Deutsche Bank to fulfill this requirement.

Intermediaries vs. Banks
Private companies that provide blocked accounts, like Fintiba, Expatrio, Studely, or Drop Money, are only intermediaries between you (the client) and a bank. They are partnered with German banks, and you pay them to open the restricted account on your behalf. Because these companies have a lot of experience with international students and visa applicants, it is worth working with them, especially if you are opening an account from your home country since the process is entirely online.

You can also open your blocked account directly with a traditional German bank, Postbank, or Sparkasse. This option is best only if you are already in Germany because you can personally go to the bank and talk to someone on the staff who will open your account for you, and then you can transfer your money. If you are abroad, dealing with a bank directly can be more of a hassle because it involves sending the documents via mail, which naturally takes longer.

Comparison Between Providers
Providers	Fees	Processing time	Online application	Document submission	Health insurance add-on	Current bank account free add-on
Expatrio	€89 processing fee; €5 monthly fee (until July 7)*	Less than 24 hours to open the account. 3-5 days for the money transfer.	Yes	Online	Yes	Yes. Open 100% online as part of the Expatrio Value Package.
Fintiba	€159 processing fee; €9.90 monthly fee	Ten minutes to open the account. Transferring the money and getting confirmation takes 3-5 days.	Yes	Online	Yes	No
Studely	€70.00 processing fee; €4.70 monthly fee	24 hours to open the account. 2-5 days for the money to transfer.	Yes	Online	No	No
*You can save €78 by securing current pricing before July 7, 2026.

Expatrio offers the most affordable prices for opening a blocked account, with €89 to set up and only a €5 monthly fee. Many students choose Expatrio’s Value Package, which includes not just the blocked account, but also health insurance, travel insurance, and a free Expatrio Bank Account. Considering everything that’s included, the overall price becomes a great deal.

Because of their low prices and high-quality customer service, many international students now choose Expatrio to open their blocked accounts.

Click Here to Get Started With Expatrio

How to Open a Blocked Bank Account?
You must open a blocked account before applying for your German visa or residence permit, so in most cases, you have to be in your home country. The process of opening a blocked account changes depending on which provider you choose, but generally, you have to:

Check with the German Embassy or Consulate how much money you need to transfer. Although the minimum required amount is usually the same for everyone, don’t transfer any money before checking with the Embassy beforehand.
Open a blocked account with the provider of your choice. Remember that you can open an account online if you work with an intermediary, such as Expatrio. If you work directly with a bank, you must submit a paper application, likely by mail via the German Embassy if you are not in Germany.
Wait for the application to process.
Transfer the money. Your provider will send you the IBAN and give you the necessary instructions on how you can make the transfer. You can transfer through a bank or an international money transfer service/app. This will take approximately 3-5 days.
Get the confirmation letter from the bank. Once your transfer is complete, your provider will send you the Confirmation Document for a Blocked Bank Account. This is the document that you need to submit to the German Embassy.
Wait to receive the visa. You must wait for the visa to process once you submit the confirmation and the rest of the documents. You will receive a National D Visa, which lets you gain entry to Germany.
When you arrive in Germany
After you arrive in Germany, you have to:

Apply for a German residence permit. Within three months of entering Germany, you must apply for a residence permit at the Ausländerbehörde.
Once you have the residence permit, you can activate your blocked account. The process for activating your reserved account changes depending on the provider, but you either have to go to the bank directly with a set of documents or upload them to the provider’s website (if you are working with an intermediary company).
Once activated, you will receive a monthly transfer from the blocked account to your current account. You also have to open a current account in a German bank – you could use the same bank or another one. This means you also have to open a current account in a German bank—you could use the same bank or another one. If you open your blocked bank account through Expatrio, you’ll be able to use their current bank account free add-on, which you can easily open online. This account is connected directly to your blocked account, so you’ll receive your monthly transfers smoothly when you arrive in Germany. It’s all done online, and you don’t need a residence permit to open it.
If you choose to open your current account with a bank when you get to Germany, you will need a residence permit to do so. This means you will not be able to access the funds in the blocked account until you have a residence permit. So, you should take extra money to cover the first few weeks of your stay in Germany. This is also why you should submit the residence permit application immediately.

Since you cannot access the funds in the blocked account until you have a residence permit, you should take extra money to cover the first few weeks of your stay in Germany. This is also why you should submit the residence permit application immediately.

When Should I Apply for a Blocked Bank Account?
It can take one to six weeks for the application for a blocked account to be processed. So make sure you start the process well in advance since you cannot apply for your German Visa until you have your confirmation from the bank. The exact processing time mostly depends on the provider you choose and the bank they work with.

Can I Open a Blocked Account from Inside Germany?
You can open a blocked account after entering Germany if you are from the United States of America, Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or South Korea. That’s because you do not need an entry visa – you can enter as a tourist, open the account online, or physically visit a bank in Germany, and then submit the application for a residence permit at the Ausländerbehörde.

Regardless of where you open a blocked account, you need the confirmation letter when you submit the residence permit application.

However, because it can take a few weeks to open a blocked account and a few other weeks to receive your residence permit (and you need the residence permit to access the money), you may not be able to use the money in your reserved account for well over a month, maybe two, after you arrive. This means you must take extra money to cover that initial period in Germany.

Can I Open a Blocked Account With a Foreign Bank?
No, you cannot. The bank where you deposit the money for your blocked account must be registered in Germany. If you deposit the money in a bank account in your home country, the German Embassy or Immigration Office will ask you to transfer it to a German bank account (leading to more work and a delayed process), or they will refuse your visa application.

What Supporting Documents Do I Need?
For a German-blocked bank account, you have to submit the following documents:

Your passport.
Proof of the origin of the money. Some providers may ask you to submit bank statements showing how you got access to the funds.
The application form. Depending on your provider, you must complete an application with your personal information, either online or on paper.
Proof of admission to the German university (if applicable).
Your ID card.
Note: The exact documents may differ between providers. Some may only ask for your passport and nothing else, whereas others will have a more extensive list of requirements.

How Do I Activate My Blocked Bank Account?
To activate your blocked bank account, you must open a current account in Germany, which means you must register your address and get the Registration Certificate beforehand. You can only access your money after you open a current account. The documents you need to submit to activate your account are:

Proof of having registered your residence in Germany, such as a lease agreement or the certificate of registration from the city hall (Anmeldung).
Proof of your current account.
Your passport with the entry stamp.
Your German residence permit (some banks may ask for it).
If you worked directly with a bank, you may have to personally go to the bank with your residence permit, address registration, and activate it. You can activate your account online if you work with a third-party company like Expatrio, Fintiba, etc.

Why Do I Also Need a Current Account?
You need a current account (also known as a transaction/checking account or in german as Girokonto) so that the monthly installments of €992 can be transferred there, since you cannot withdraw directly from a blocked account. With a current account, you will get a debit/credit card which you can use to withdraw money from ATMs or to make payments. You can open both accounts in the same bank or different ones.

Some blocked bank account providers offer a current bank account add-on as part of their blocked account packages. This is especially convenient since it allows for quicker access to your money when you get to Germany and you don’t have to show up at a bank branch and open a current account upon arrival.

Expatrio is one of the providers that offer this current account free add-on, included in their Expatrio Value Package. It’s a convenient option. You can open your current account 100% online, and it will make receiving your monthly payouts easier and stress-free.

Studying In Germany Without a Blocked Account
Studying in Germany without a blocked account is possible if you fulfill one of the requirements listed below:

You are from the EU, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland.
You have won a scholarship from an established educational institution in Germany.
Confirmation you will receive government funding or have an approved student loan in Germany.
Proof of sponsorship from a friend or relative living in Germany. Your sponsor has to make a formal request at the Ausländerbehörde to sponsor you.
You must receive enough support or a scholarship large enough to cover your daily living expenses in Germany, the same way a blocked account would.

How to Transfer Funds Fund to My Blocked Account?
When your blocked account is open, your provider will send you the account’s IBAN (International Bank Account Number), where you must send the money. You can transfer through a bank (using your local bank account) or through an international money transfer app or service.

Your provider will also inform you how to transfer the money to your account. Sometimes, they have their own money transfer service.

How Much Does it Cost to Open a Blocked Bank Account?
The cost of opening a blocked account for a German visa ranges from €50 to €150, depending on the provider you work with. If you are applying by post, you should also consider any postage costs and any other certificates.

Certain providers will also ask you to pay a “buffer” amount – about €100 or less – to cover any fees charged from the bank. This amount is returned to you when you close the account.

expatrio april 2024 banner

What If I Need to Close the Account Early?
If you need to close your account early, for example, if your visa is rejected or you must return home and cancel it, you must ask your provider to close it. You will need proof from the German Embassy/consulate for why you must do so. Once you submit the relevant documents to the provider, they will send you back the money within two to four weeks.

You might not get back the processing fees if you choose to close the account of your own volition.

Can I Get My Money Back if My Visa Application Is Rejected?
Yes, you will get back the money if your German visa is rejected. You will have to send the Visa Rejection document you received from the German Embassy/Consulate along with your personal bank account details to your provider, and they will close your account and return the money within a few weeks. Some providers will also return the money you paid to open the account.

How Do I Withdraw Money From My Blocked Bank Account?
You cannot withdraw your money directly from the blocked account. Instead, the monthly sum is directly deposited into your current account, and you can withdraw from there. You can only withdraw directly from the blocked account if you have deposited more than the minimum required amount of €11,904, but only until you spend the excess amount.

Do I Need a Blocked Account for the Second Year of Studies?
The official requirement for a German student visa is that you need a blocked account only for the first year of studies. If your course of study is longer than one year, and you need to extend your residence permit, you usually have to show proof that you can finance your stay, but the proof of finances does not necessarily have to be a blocked account. It could be a personal bank account with enough funds or your parent’s or sponsor’s bank account.

However, there have been cases when the Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) has asked students to show they have extended their blocked account. As with most things, it is up to the Immigration officers to evaluate your situation and decide how you should provide proof of finances.

If they decide that it is not enough to show your personal bank statements, then you might need to transfer funds for another year to your blocked account.

If you immediately receive a residence permit that’s longer than one year, then you likely don’t have to extend your account either.

How Do I Extend a Blocked Bank Account?
You must contact your provider to extend your blocked account for another year. If your account is with Postbank or Sparkasse, you must complete and submit a form. If you opened the account via an intermediary (Fintiba, Expatrio, etc.) you can extend the account online. You must pay a fee, usually less than the initial start-up fee. Ensure you receive confirmation of the extension or reactivation of the account before you submit any money.

Should I Close The Account After My Studies?
With some providers, your account will close immediately after the one-year period is up. If it is not automatically and immediately closed, you can choose to close it if you wish or you can leave it in case you need it for a later residence permit application. Eventually, however, after a certain period of inactivity, the account will close, and if you need it again, you either need to reopen it or open another account.

Can I Combine the Blocked Account With a Health Insurance Policy?
Yes, many providers have packages that include both the bank account, a travel insurance policy, and long-term student health insurance.

Providers who offer health insurance along with their blocked accounts include:

Expatrio: Travel insurance along with student health insurance with TK (Techniker Krankenkasse) or private insurance (DR-Walter).
Fintiba: Travel insurance and student health insurance with DAK-Gesundheit or private insurance (MAWISTA).
Drop Money: Public health insurance with Barmer Krankenkasse or Techniker Krankenkasse.
Is the €992 per Month Enough to Live In Germany?
The money you need for a blocked account is based on the minimum amount required to live in Germany for a year – in 2025, that is €992 per month or €11,904 per year. As such, the monthly allowance from the sperrkonto should be enough to cover basic day-to-day expenses for a student, such as food, accommodation, and transport.

Normally, whether or not this money is enough for you will depend on your lifestyle, but the area or city you are settled in also plays an important role. For example, Berlin (despite being the capital) is one of the least expensive of the major cities, whereas Munich is the most expensive.

Living Costs in Germany – 2025
Here’s a short list of the average prices for some of the daily necessities in a few of the major cities in Germany:

Berlin	Munich	Stuttgart	Frankfurt
Rent (for a one-bedroom apartment in the center)	€930.48	€1,311.84	€928.26	€1,049.29
Transportation	€2.90 for a one-way ticket €81 for a monthly pass	€3.30 for a one-way ticket €60 for a monthly pass	€2.73 for a one-way ticket €67.80 for a monthly pass	€2.75 for a one-way ticket €91.70 for a monthly pass
Meal at an inexpensive restaurant	€10/person	€14/person	€12/person	€10
Utilities per month	€218.37	€264.29	€234	€277.42
1 loaf of bread	€1.25	€1.70	€1.77	€1.24
1 liter of milk	€0.93	€1.01	€0.91	€0.94
1 kg rice	€1.84	€2.01	€2.05	€1.77
1.5 liter of water	€0.55	€0.59	€0.35	€0.54
1 kg chicken fillets	€6.87	€7.55	€6.86	€6.11
1 kg apples	€2.41	€2.86	€2.03	€2.53
1 kg tomatoes	€2.51	€2.96	€2.72	€2.53
With that said, emergencies can occur, and if you need extra money at short notice, the blocked account may not be useful, since you cannot withdraw more than what is deposited in your current account each month.

Because of this, you should keep an emergency fund in your current account, which you can withdraw from anytime – especially because you will be in a foreign country.

Ready to move to Germany? Start here!
You're one click away from getting personalized tips for your German visa! Sign up for free resources, expert guidance, and invites to our exclusive webinars.


German Blocked Account for International Students
Getting a German Visa Worldwide
Germany Visa in the UK
Germany Visa in the US
Germany Visa in India
Germany Visa in Dubai



Latest News
Germany Visa Approval Rate
EU Blue Card in Germany vs. Other EU Countries
Converting from a Student Visa to Job Seeker Visa in Germany
Job Seeker Visa VS Chancenkarte in Germany
Can I Study in Germany Without a Blocked Account?
Copyright © 2026 Germany Visa. All Rights Reserved.

Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms and Conditions
Imprint
Disclaimer: Although the information on this website has been prepared with utmost care, we can not accept any responsibility for inaccuracies contained herein.

